>> Steve Kinney: So
this is gonna be our application,
we'll have a Copy from Clipboard button.
Eventually we'll get
some global shortcuts,
it'll be able to store clippings.
First it will store them just in the DOM.
And eventually we're gonna hook it up to
a SQLite database that lives in the file
system so
it can persist in between sessions, right.
And SQLite drivers are a compile
C++ binary, right,
which we would not normally be able
to just use in a Web app, right?
You can't just be like, yeah, yeah,
yeah, I wanna just use a SQLite, no,
that doesn't work.
You'd have to use some Web API, like
IndexedDB or something along those lines.
Our localStorage persist data,
we're gonna use a SQL database,
mostly because we can, right?
It is going to be a single table, a SQLite
even might be a little heavy-handed.
It's mostly to make the point of how do
we work with native modules in Electron?
Cool, so this library is, or
this repo is this
clipmaster-fem-v2 that's available.
I'm going to kind of go on a tour
of what we have in the code base
to buy you some time for an NPM
install but we can kinda take a look.
So a few things you might notice is one,
just for fun,
instead of HTML, I used Jade.
And you can see,
I just gave it the .jade file extension.
And that is all that I needed
to do in order to use Jade.
I didn't have to put
anything else in place,
I just gave it the right file extension.
If I go to my main.js,
>> Steve Kinney: You can see
that I'm just loading index.jade, and
it just knows what to do out of the box.
Electron Forge is clearly a little bit
more generous with the comments here.
But you can see,
this is actually really interesting.
Electron-squirrel-startup is when
you create a Windows Installer,
which we're not gonna be
able to get into today.
You might wanna add stuff
into the Start menu or
onto the desktop, and
stuff along those lines.
This will actually do that for
you on Windows.
And so
it is basically how I recommend doing it.
Setting it up yourself
is also not very hard,
it's effectively a dependency
that you require in line.
And the function returns true if
it installed all the shortcuts and
basically installed it on Windows.
At which point you leave the app, and
then the next time they run the app,
that will return false.
And they'll do it out of the box,
so that's cool.
I'm tending to shy a little bit from
the operating system-specific stuff today
because I have a wide audience.
But that is very cool,
and very there, you see,
they do a very similar thing
with the let mainWindow.
They are setting the height and the width
of the window, which you could do as well.
I liked the default one last time, so
it didn't occur to me to change it.
But you could set the height and
the width, they load in that Jade file.
They're opening the DevTools by default,
so if that annoys you,
just comment out that line.
But that is a way programmatically
open the DevTools.
They're kinda set up for a little bit
more of if you wanted to go multi-window.
Which is when a window is closed, they
set mainWindow back to null instead of
waiting for garbage collection,
that's cool.
When they broke out the kind of app.on
ready into its own function that we just
saw, they do a few other
OS-specific stuff.
Which is if you closed that mainWindow
in FireCell, it would've quit the app.
That's technically not Mac OS behavior,
Mac OS, you can close all of the windows
and the application is still running.
So here you can see,
if process.platform !== darwin,
quit the application when
the last window is closed.
But that means in Mac the application will
continue running even when the last window
isn't closed, which makes sense.
And similar for Mac OS because
it can run with no windows open.
If they go to click on the dock icon and
there are no open windows,
create a new window, right?
And that's why it's broken
out into its own thing.
So just a little bit, a lot of the same,
a little bit on top of that as well.
And we've got the jade file, so on and
so forth, but pretty standard stuff.
The other really important
one is this compilerc.
If you look at compilerc and
it looks like a JSON configuration file,
you're probably, or
Babel configuration file,
then you're probably thinking correctly,
right?
There is a way,
basically you have development, and
then the only new thing here
is application/javascript.
This means that you could also
configure settings for SaaS or
Jade or anything else that
you wanted to do, right?
But this is effectively using Babel and
env, Babel environment, to say, hey, don't
transpile features that are supported by
the current version of Electron, right?
Cuz Babel out of the box,
you might be having to target IE11, right?
Electron, you're packaging your
own recent version of Chrome.
So it doesn't have to transpile as much
stuff cuz a lot more stuff is natively
supported.
So this will basically transpile
only what it needs to transpile
to run on Electron 3.0.
And you can see that it's
also supporting React,
so we'll get JSX, syntax,
and then some other things.
So it gives sourceMaps
inline in development but
not in production, all right?
And so this is basically
a Babel configuration file.
You can also configure SaaS,
Jade, all the other things.
You can add more plugins here if
you want some other fancy syntax,
all of that will work.
Other than that, it's very similar to
the application that we built by hand.
We've got a main.js and a renderer,
I think, out of the box,
they called it index.js for
the main process.
But for our sanity, I renamed it main.js,
but that doesn't really matter.
And renderer.js, they don't actually
include a renderer file at all by default.
So I gave us one, as you can see,
it's very advanced.
Cool, we do have some dependencies
in place already, right?
You can see there's some packaging stuff
that we'll get into in a little bit
when we do some of this, but
I included react and react-dom.
You can see,
it actually has electron-compile as well.
As well as electron-prebuilt
composite devDependency,
some of this Babel stuff in place,
and some eslint configuration.